.TH \f3bhinstall\f1 1 "Time-stamp: <2002-05-19 05:17:24 fip>"
.SH NAME
bhinstall \- setup script for the 
.B blackhole
spam blocker.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bhinstall
.SM  install 
| 
.SM remove 
|
.SM queue_install
.I [queue add|del <domain> <user>]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
.B bhinstall
facilitates the setup of your personal
.BR blackhole (1)
settings

.B bhinstall
is a shell script that
.IP 1.
generates a convenient 
.I ~/.forward
or
.I ~/.qmail
or
.I ~/.courier
file
.IP 2.
calls 
.BR bhconf (1)
for the 
.BR blackhole (1)
rules setup which should give you at least a working skeleton. 


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 20
.B queue_install
.I [queue add|del <domain> <user>]
.P
This option is only for installing Blackhole for qmail-queue from the source directory.
.P
User will either:
.IP \(bu 
.B bhinstall
install 
.PP
or
.IP \(bu
.B bhinstall
remove
.PP
 the 
.B blackhole
spam filter.


.SH NOTES

.IP \(bu
The examples directory (
.I /usr/share/doc/blackhole/examples
for Debian ) contains a complete set of specific MTA dot-files. You can just copy the corresponding one in your home
directory (backing up the old one, of course).   
.IP \(bu
There you can find a 
.I .blackhole
skeleton, too.



.SH SEE ALSO
.BR blackhole (1),
.BR bhconf (1),
.BR dot_blackhole (5),
.PP
For a verbose intro see the 
.B blackhole
info entry.
.SH AUTHOR
.SB Chris Kennedy

.I <getdown@groovy.org>
.P
This manual page was written by 
.SB Michael Hummel 
.SM <mhummel@debian.org>,
.SM for the 
.SB Debian GNU/Linux 
.SM system (but may be used by others).
