.TH \f3blackhole\f1 1 "Time-stamp: <2002-04-21 16:49:47 fip>"
.SH NAME
blackhole \- spam blocker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blackhole
[
.I options
]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.P
.B blackhole
is a email spam (and virus) blocker.
.SS FEATURES
.IP  \(bu 6
Works with Qmail (in .qmail or as a qmail-queue replacement).
.IP  \(bu 6
Works with Sendmail or Postfix in the .forward file, and can write either mbox or maildir formats for both.
.IP  \(bu 6
highly efficient in memory and CPU usage from being in C.
.IP  \(bu 6
Lower priority process so it will keep from hogging the CPU.
.IP  \(bu 6
Configuration tools included to install and setup all options (
.BR bhinstall (1)
,
.BR bhconf (1)
)
.IP  \(bu 6
Separate email that is virus to one mailbox, and spam to another, which are checkable with Imap clients.
.IP  \(bu 6
One box option will not send them to a separate mailbox, but tag the
Subject: lines with what it is, SPAM, VIRUS and the reason + orig sub.
.IP  \(bu 6
X-BlackHole headers added to messages blocked to give the reasons and types of viruses etc.
.IP  \(bu 6
Option to expire messages in the .Spam and .Virus folders after X number of days.
.IP  \(bu 6
Can choose individual actions per check, for deleting/Subject tags/ bouncing/bounce message sent.
.PP

.SS SETUP
After a successful installation (which should be passed at the time
reading you this manual page) there are 2 steps left to be able to
use 
.B blackhole
in a sensible way:
.IP 1. 
Connect to your MTA/MDA through the correspondent dot_file
(~/.forward or ~/.qmail). In Debian you can find a set of dotfiles in
.I /usr/share/doc/blackhole-MTAVERSION/examples/
(see also 
.BR bhinstall (1) 
.BR dot_blackhole (5)
 and the info entry)
.IP 2.
Set up your personal preferences in $Maildir/.blackhole (see the
examples provided in 
.I /usr/share/doc/blackhole/examples/ 
and the info entry. 
.BR bhconf (1)
is a script for the maintenance of such a file.  


 
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
.PP
Usually you won't invoke 
.B blackhole
on the command line -- unless
you are testing (see 
.B TESTING
).
.P
.SM (The control over
.SB blackhole's
.SM options can/should be done through the $Maildir/.blackhole file)  

.TP 20
.B \-help
Print the usage (``help'') message and exit.
.TP
.B \-version
Print the current version number
.TP
.B \-debug [logfile]
Very verbose output for testing.
.TP
.BI \-Internal
Show internal settings from compile time..
.TP
.BI \-config
Show current config from .blackhole file.
.TP
.BI \-Level
Show maximum possible level and current one.
.TP
.BI \-list
List current RBL Lists in order of levels.
.TP
.BI \-log [type]
Print out logging info when actions happen
.TP
.B \-log_ok
Log successful deliveries.
.TP
.B \-log_score
 Log score too.
.TP
.B \-log_size
Log size too.
.TP
.B \-log_iprelay
 Log relay ip too.
.TP
.B \-log_sender
Log sender too.
.TP
.B \-log_recipient
Log recipient too.
.TP
.B \-bounce
Bounce messages blackholed back to sender.
.TP
.B \-Delete
Delete all Spam and Virus email, don't store.
.TP
.B \-norbl
No RBL Lists, skip using them for checking.
.TP
.B \-nosig
Stop body checking at messages signature.
.TP
.B \-total
Use level for maxnumber of RBL Lists matched.
.TP
.B \-BSpam
Check body for known Spam patterns.
.TP
.B \-BRacist
Check body for known Racist patterns.
.TP
.B \-BPorn
Check body for known Porn/Sex patterns.
.TP
.B \-BCustom
Check body for [my_body] custom patterns.
.TP
.B \-Virus
Check for viruses, use .Virus mbox.
.TP
.B \-Alert
Send an alert back to the virus sender.
.TP
.B \-Clean
Remove viruses from email, disinfect.
.TP
.BI \-maildir\ dir
Change Maildir (default is mail).
.TP
.B \-Queue
Use with qmail-qfilter to run in Qmail queue.
.TP
.B \-Sendmail
Use with Sendmail, writes to Inbox.Spam.
.TP
.BI \-Pfilter {sender} {recipient}
Postfix Content Filter
.TP 
.BI \-spool \ "dir \ [mbox]"
('-spool Mail' gets ~/Mail/Inbox.Spam).
.TP
.B \-Resolve
Check that senders return address is valid.
.TP
.B \-Reverse
Check reverse vs forward DNS match for relay.
.TP
.B \-SReverse
Strict Reverse DNS Checking, helo etc.
.TP
.B \-Whitelist
Only allow good email/relay, deny all other.
.TP
.B \-Onebox
Change Subject: sends to the main mail box instead of .Spam or .Virus, works on all servers.
.TP
.BI \-Hascii \ n
ASCII characters above 128, max allowed.
.TP
.BI \-Expire \ n
n Days to delete .Spam and .Virus mail.
.TP
.B \-razor
Use Razor.
.TP
.BI \-Maxscore
Use scores for each check to choose action.
.P

.SH TESTING
.P
You can run the following type of syntax to get debug info on parsing
any email file...
.P
.SB cat EMAIL_FILE | blackhole -d -D [output_file]
.TP
The -D option doesn't write out the email, and -d is debug.
.P
Also there is a Perl script to run whole
directories of separate qmail messages through and watch the
output( 
.I /usr/share/doc/blackhole/examples/testing.pl
).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bhinstall (1),
.BR bhconf (1),
.BR dot_blackhole (5),
.PP
For a verbose intro see the 
.B blackhole
info entry.
.SH AUTHOR
.SB Chris Kennedy

.I <getdown@groovy.org>
.P
This manual page was written by 
.SB Michael Hummel 
.SI <mhummel@debian.org>,
.SM for the 
.SB Debian GNU/Linux system
.SM (but may be used by others).