.TH \f3dot_blackhole\f1 5
.SH NAME
dot_blackhole \- blackhole dotfile examples
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR .blackhole \ examples

.SH CONCEPTION

.B blackhole
allows spam checks based on 
.IP \(bu
the relay or sender IP
.IP \(bu
the email address of the sender
.IP \(bu
the header content
.IP \(bu
distributed spam checksum database
.B razor 
.IP \(bu
and the email body content 

.P
Additionally, you may choose fine grained actions for every type of match. 

.SH EXAMPLES

.P
.SS GENERAL OPTIONS

.P
.Sx 2
[level]
 7

.Ex
Amount of RBL ("Real time Black hole List") hosts to use.


.Sx 2 
[expire]
 0

.EX
No expiration.

(Give the number of days before removing email in .Spam and .Virus
maildir directories, only works currently for Maildir setups, not for
Sendmail with mbox formats.)

.Sx
[maxbytes]

.Ex
Maximum bytes or size of an email to allow through.

.Sx
[maxbytes_trunc]

.Ex
Message will be truncated to the maxbytes size if exceeded, otherwise
the message is just put into your spam folder even if over.

.Sx
[smtp_relay]

.Ex
SMTP Server used when forwarding email to another server, for spam/virus/ok
email, default is 127.0.0.1

.Sx
[spam_fwd]
 spam@yourdomain.net

.Ex
Forward Spam to this address rather than storing locally.

.Sx
[virus_fwd]

.Ex
 Forward Viruses to this address rather than storing locally.

.Sx
[virus_bcc_to]
 
.Ex
BCC Address for virus alerts to be sent to,separate from normal virus
alerts, if NULL no BCC alerts are sent, put an administrator address
here for them to be sent.

.Sx
[ok_fwd]

.Ex
 Forward OK email, that isn't infected or Spam, to this address rather than
 keeping them locally.

.Sx  
[one_box]
 0

.Ex
Divert spam (and viruses);therefore 0 is: create separate boxes for
spam and virus   
.P

(1 changes the delivery of email to just the main email box, and no longer
separates out the Spam and Viruses, it will just tag the Subject line instead)

.Sx
[white_list]
 0

.Ex
No white_list
.P
(This changes the behavior of BlackHole to use the good_email and good_relay
sections and 
.B only 
allow email from addresses/ip relays/nets that are in them.)

.Sx
[nosignature]
 1

.Ex
Don't include signatures in body checks. Useful for ascii art
signatures with a lot of $$$$$$$$$


.SS IP RELATED CHECKS
.P
.Sx 
[my_relay]
 192.168.0.0/16

.Ex
Don't check internal IPs
.P
(This is a list of relays you don't want to use in the header,
so it will skip them and go to the next one, instead of doing the
checks against the most recent one.  Takes either classful notation
like 192.168. or CIDR of 192.168.0.0/16.  By default 127.0.0.1 is
included in the config.)

.Sx 
[excluded_relay]
 65.125.64.135
 65.125.64.134
 192.25.206.10

.Ex
Don't check debian's list servers again and again
.P
Header and body will be checked if proceeding, but no RBL check.

.Sx
[check_dns]
 0

.Ex
No DNS checks
.P
(Check the SENDER address domain of the email against DNS to see if it is a
valid email and that bounces would work.)

.Sx
[check_reverse]
 0 

.Ex
No reverse DNS checks
.P
(Check the Relay ip of the email for reverse and forward DNS resolution which
matches each other, if it is not setup in Reverse DNS or the reverse doesn't
match forward lookup, then the email is blocked.)

.Sx
[bad_relay]
 nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn

.Ex
No discussion about that one.

.Sx
[good_relay]
 62.178.97.17

.Ex
Absolutely accept anything from there.
.P
(No further checks will be done.) 

.SS SENDER RELATED CHECKS
.P
[my_email] 

.Ex
(List of email addresses you allow email to, anything else used
to address you in the To: envelope will be classified as Spam.)

.Sx
[good_email] 
 friend@outlook_hell_suffering_from_technophobia
.Ex
(Good place for html obsessed people you nevertheless want to have
news from, but want to exclude the remaining html junk - see below.)

.Sx
[bad_email]
 spammer@spammerparadise.com
 @spammerparadise.com		
 spammerparadise.com

.Ex
(The last one matches both spammerparadise.com and limbo.spammerparadise.com)

.SS HEADER RELATED CHECKS
.P
.Sx
[bad_subject]
  ks_c_5601
 ^ADV:
 JOIN FREE

.Ex
Get rid of some junk with charset indication in the subject;
accepting the invitation of some "ethical" spammers (note: you may
use the anchors "^" and "$"); ...

.Sx
[bad_headers]

.Ex
(These are headers you choose to block, the syntax is 'X-Header: BLOCK THIS',
you can put as many headers here to do that with, and can use the ^ and $
anchors just like the subject blocking, this is case sensitive.)

.Sx
[charsets]
 us-ascii
 iso-8859-1
 iso-8859-2
 iso-8859-9
 iso-8859-15
 utf-8
 iso-2022-jp
 
.Ex
Charsets to let through. Everything else will be blocked.
.P
(Fuzzy matching is possible: "windows" matches a lot of them)

.Sx
[bad_ctype]
 text/html

.Ex
Content Type to block. Sort of drastic measure, works fine in
conjunction with [good_email] though.

.Sx 
[bad_encoding]
 base64

.Ex
Another drastic one.

.SS BODY RELATED CHECKS
.P
.Sx
[razor]
 1

.Ex
Use razor, definitely - especially for mailing lists.
.P
(You have to get it first
.UR 
http://razor.sourceforge.net/ 
.UE 
or
.IR apt-get 
it)

.Sx
[ascii_128]
 100

.Ex
100 characters above ascii 128 is usually fine with me.

.Sx
[body_check_spam]
 1

.Ex
Check body against some predefined patterns 

.Sx
[body_check] 
 5

.Ex
Same as Body Check Spam, but with your own custom list, which is setup in the
[my_body] section below, the default is 1 for the threshold, so one custom
pattern matched will block the email, but you can change it here like the
other body checks.


.Sx
[my_body]
 5.0: Nigerian Government
 3.5: MSHTML
 5.0: FREE search engine
 5.0: saved from url=
 5.0: www.avez-vousoublie.org
 5.0: e-mail has reached you in error
 5.0: your investment
 3.0: 0.000.00
 5.0: AKDENIZ GOZ MERKEZI
 3.5: ask for your assistance
 5.0: Pour ne plus recevoir des emails, cliquez
 5.0: investment program 
 5.0: YOU WON
 2.0: FREE
 5.0: one time message
 5.0: Microsoft FrontPage 

.Ex
Check against my custom patterns (RE are now supported (read the pcre
manpage for syntax).  Threshold is set to "5".

"MSHTML" and "Microsoft FrontPage" are my favorites.


.Sx
[vscan]
 1

.Ex
Virus Scan the email, this will activate virus scanning
.P

.Sx
[vclean]
 1

.Ex
(Virus Clean the email, this will remove attachments from infected emails,
when vcheck is setup.)



.Sx
[valert]
 1

.Ex
(Virus Alert, this will send alerts containing the name of the virus sent
to email senders of viruses.)

.SS ACTIONS
.P
.Sx 
[maxscore]
 1

.Ex
Use scores for each check to choose action.

This is a score to match before blocking, if set to 0 it is inactive, if it
is 1 or greater the blackhole changes behavior and will go through each check
even if one matches, and then check the score and orders them in that order,
so that some checks can have precedence over others and some not make the
email get deleted unless others match.  

.Sx
[bad_subject_action]
 active = 1
 passthru = 1
 score = 1
 spam_fwd = NULL
 delete = 0
 bounce = 0
.Ex
Check for bad subjects, don't try this check if other checks already
gave positive, let the score at 1 (this score will decide which action
takes precedence when there is more than one match); don't forward
spam; don't delete it yet; don't bounce.
 

.Sx
[bad_email_action]
 active = 1
 bounce = 1
 delete = 1
 passthru = 0
 accumulative = 1	

.Ex

Now, bounce, delete and have this check happen, even if other checks
succeded and allows the actions settings be enabled even if this action
is not the highest in score, or first met (on by default).

.Sx
	[bad_subject_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[bad_email_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[bad_relay_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[rbl_check_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[body_check_spam_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[body_check_porn_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[body_check_racist_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[white_list_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[my_email_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[check_dns_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[body_check_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[charsets_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[ascii_128_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[check_reverse_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[razor_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[bad_headers_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[bad_ctype_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[bad_encoding_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[bad_maxbytes_action]
.Ex

.Sx
	[bad_rcptto_action]

.Ex
List of available action frames

.SS Custom Header Tags

.Sx
 [spam_header]
  subject_tag = 1
  subject_msg = SPAM
  subject_info = 1
  subject_score = 0
  version = 1
  sender = 1
  relay = 1
  match = 1
  type = 1
  dUmMy= 1
 
.Ex

Spam Header tags, control the subject tags, and also X-BlackHole headers,
1 equals the ones you want, and 0 the ones you don't want.

.Sx
 [virus_header]
  subject_tag = 1
  subject_msg = VIRUS
  subject_type = 1
  subject_clean = 0
  version = 1
  sender = 1
  relay = 1
  match = 1
  type = 1
  dUmMy= 1

.Ex

virus header tags

.SH NOTES

.BI blackhole \ -I
let you check the compile time defaults.  
.P
You may want to use
.BR bhconf (1)
to create and maintain your .blackhole file.
.P
Check the examples directory for additional information and dotfiles.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR bhconf (1),
.BR bhinstall (1),
.BR blackhole (1),
.BR razor-check (1)

.PP
For a verbose intro see the 
.B blackhole
info entry.
.SH AUTHOR
.SB Chris Kennedy

.I <getdown@groovy.org>
.P
This manual page was written by 
.SB Michael Hummel 
.SM <mhummel@debian.org>,
.SM for the 
.SB Debian GNU/Linux system
.SM (but may be used by others). 
